What is Artificial Intelligence?
It is a branch of Computer Science that pursues creating the computers or machines as intelligent
as human beings.
It is the science and engineering of making intelligent machines, especially intelligent computer
programs.
It is related to the similar task of using computers to understand human intelligence, but AI does
not have to confine itself to methods that are biologically observable
Definition: Artificial Intelligence is the study of how to make computers do things, which, at the
moment, people do better.
According to the father of Artificial Intelligence, John McCarthy, it is “The science and
engineering of making intelligent machines, especially intelligent computer programs”.
Artificial Intelligence is a way of making a computer, a computer-controlled robot, or a
software think intelligently, in the similar manner the intelligent humans think.
AI is accomplished by studying how human brain thinks and how humans learn, decide, and
work while trying to solve a problem, and then using the outcomes of this study as a basis of
developing intelligent software and systems.
It has gained prominence recently due, in part, to big data, or the increase in speed, size and
variety of data businesses are now collecting. AI can perform tasks such as identifying patterns
in the data more efficiently than humans, enabling businesses to gain more insight out of
their data.
From a business perspective AI is a set of very powerful tools, and methodologies for using
those tools to solve business problems.
From a programming perspective, AI includes the study of symbolic programming, problem
solving, and search.



Pattern Recognition — When a program makes observations of some kind, it is often planned
to compare what it sees with a pattern. For example, a vision program may try to match a pattern
of eyes and a nose in a scene in order to find a face. More complex patterns are like a natural
language text, a chess position or in the history of some event. These more complex patterns
require quite different methods than do the simple patterns that have been studied the most.

Machine learning is a subset of AI that involves the use of algorithms and statistical models to enable computers to improve their performance on a specific task through experience. Machine learning algorithms build a model based on sample data to make predictions or decisions without being explicitly programmed to perform the task.